# Perth-House-Price-Prediction
## Introduction 
In the UK, there is a long-standing issue with housing that has gotten worse in recent years. Politicians, analysts, academics, and the public there is an agreement that the UK is undergoing a housing crisis. Our housing issues have several essential facets, such as increased homelessness and an especially unstable private rental market. But what analysts and policymakers refer to as the housing crisis may be most notable for the drop in home ownership and record high property prices. For a few years, Glasgow has also faced the same problem as the number of incoming students has increased after COVID-19. Many, students are homeless as facing the outrage of high rent due to the housing crisis. Many, were told by the universities to defer their education plan for the next year. Not only students but even other individuals are facing the issues as per data Glasgow's homeless population has increased as a result of the housing crisis as there were reportedly 1,500 homeless individuals living in the city in 2023. So, is only a lack of houses responsible for the crisis if yes then the question arises of how the government will architect the city housing plan to stop the long ongoing crisis. The housing crisis is complex with no easy solution. So, In this research I will be focussing on to determine how a community may plan for housing, we must first consider what characteristics make a house, what a tenant might need, and the overall pattern of homes in 
a region. In the pages that follow, we'll try to address these questions as well as many others.

## Dataset
Since I couldn't locate a decent enough dataset for UK houses, I looked for one for Perth, Australia. Perth is one of the world's most remote towns and the fourth most populated city of Australia, perched on the banks of the vast Swan River, between the Indian Ocean and the dunes of the Arbour Desert. With a lot of greenery and having the sunniest days in all the capital cities of Australia is the perfect sunny town for people to enjoy. But Everything is not perfect in the sunny town. In a metropolis of roughly 20 lac people, this year the number of homes available for rent is fewer than 2500. The Shortage has surged the rent to a very high extent while increasing the cost of buying a house to 8 times the average Australian Median Income. I aim to understand the housing problem through the analysis of copious data and figures. We may contribute to evidence-based decision-making and policy development by spotting patterns, trends, and viable solutions. This will help to alleviate the housing crisis and advance the welfare of people and communities.
The Dataset is taken from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/syuzai/perth-house- prices) it consists of several informative columns crucial for predicting the house prices, it consists of 33656 rows and 13 Columns which are :

### I have attached full report please take a look as it gives brief description about the work done.

## Thank You
